Disease Name: Black Rot
Source: https://extension.umn.edu/plant-diseases/black-rot-apple

Overview:
Black rot is occasionally a problem on Minnesota apple trees. This fungal disease causes leaf spot, fruit rot and cankers on branches. Trees are more likely to be infected if they are not fully hardy in Minnesota, infected with fire blight, or stressed by environmentaal factors like drought.

Symptoms:
Large brown rotten areas can form anywhere on the fruit but are most common on the blossom end. Brown to black concentric rings can often be seen on larger infections. The flesh of the apple is brown but remains firm. Infected leaves develop "frog-eye leaf spot.” These are circular spots with purplish or reddish edges and light tan interiors. Cankers appear as a sunken, reddish-brown area on infected branches. Cankers often have rough or cracked bark.

Causes:
Black rot is caused by the fungus Diplodia seriata (syn Botryosphaeria obtusa). The fungus can infect dead tissue as well as living trunks, branches, leaves and fruits. The black rot fungi survive Minnesota winters in branch cankers and mummified fruit (shriveled and dried fruit) attached to the tree. In wet weather, spores are released from these infections and spread by wind or splashing water. The fungus infects leaves and fruit through natural openings or minor wounds.

Treatments/Solutions:
Pruning out dead or diseased branches, picking all dried and shriveled fruits remaining on the trees, and removing infected plant material from the area are all important. All infected plant parts should be burned, buried or sent to a municipal composting site. Be sure to remove the stumps of any apple trees you cut down. Dead stumps can be a source of spores. Fungicide sprays are usually not needed for managing black rot in Minnesota. Consider using fungicides only after you’ve used good cultural practices and the disease hasn’t gone away.

Prevention:
Maintain tree health by reducing stress. Choose an appropriate site for all new apple trees. Plant only cultivars that are truly hardy for your area. Provide trees with adequate water. Keep fire blight in check. Remove any limbs or trees killed by fire blight to discourage black rot. Practice good sanitation as well, keeping the area around the tree clean and free of debris. Promot air circulation by mowing the grass and thinning the fruit load. Wash and rub fruit infections to remove them.