Disease Name: Cedar Apple Rust
Source: https://extension.umn.edu/plant-diseases/cedar-apple-rust

Overview:
Cedar-apple rust and related rust fungi need plants from two plant families to complete their life cycle. These fungi rarely cause serious damage to their hosts and do not require management in most cases.

Symptoms:
This disease is most common on apple and crabapple. It occurs occasionally on hawthorn. Leaf spots are first yellow then turn bright orange-red, often with a bright red border. Small, raised, black dots form in the center of leaf spots on the upper leaf surface when the leaf spots mature. Very short (less than 1/10th inch), finger-like fungal tubes stick out from the lower surface of the leaf, directly below leaf spots. The fungal tubes appear fringed when they open at the tip to release yellow to orange, powdery spores.

Causes:
Cedar-apple rust and related rust fungi over-winter in infected branches and galls on juniper and red cedar trees. In wet, spring weather, the galls produce orange, gummy, fungal growths that release spores. During dry spring weather, the orange, gummy structures shrivel and dry. Galls can rehydrate and dry out several times in one season in response to weather conditions.Once the weather becomes consistently warm and dry, spores are no longer produced on infected junipers or red cedar trees.

Treatments/Solutions:
Tolerate leaf spots and fruit infection on apples, hawthorns, serviceberry and other plants in the Rosaceae family. They do not significantly affect the health of the tree if leaf loss does not occur. Do not plant eastern red cedar and juniper plants within a few hundred yards of susceptible Rosaceae plants. This will reduce disease problems but not completely eliminate them. Inspect nearby juniper and red cedar trees in late winter or early spring. Pruning and removing brown, woody galls found before orange, gelatinous structures form in the spring will help reduce the level of infection on nearby Rosaceae plants. Prune and remove infected twigs or branches on Rosaceae plants if they occur as well. Fungicides are not recommended to protect trees from infection with cedar apple rust and related rust fungi. Trees and shrubs often tolerate infection. There are no fungicides available to home gardeners that can be used on trees that produce fruit that will be eaten by people. Fungicides with the active ingredient Myclobutanil are most effective in preventing rust. Copper and sulfur products can be used as well.

Prevention:
Rust-resistant cultivars of hawthorn are difficult to find. Often, a cultivated variety will have resistance to one of the rusts (such as cedar-apple rust), but be highly susceptible to, and very likely to be infected by a different rust (such as hawthorn rust). Plant disease-resistant varieties of crabapple and apple when possible. Do not plant Beacon and Wealthy apple varieties in areas where cedar apple rust has been a problem. Among apple varieties commonly grown in Minnesota, these are the only two that are likely to be significantly damaged by rust.