Disease Name: Late Blight
Source: https://pddc.wisc.edu/2015/07/28/late-blight/

Overview:
Late blight is a destructive disease of tomatoes and potatoes that can kill plants, and make tomato fruits and potato tubers inedible. This disease also affects, although typically to a lesser extent, weeds such as nightshade. The disease routinely causes severe losses for fresh market tomato producers and home gardeners in Wisconsin.

Symptoms:
On leaves of tomato or potato, late blight begins as pale-green or olive-green areas that quickly enlarge to become brown-black, water-soaked, and oily-looking. Stems can also exhibit dark-brown to black areas. Tomato fruits with late blight develop large, often sunken, golden- to chocolate-brown, firm spots with distinct rings. Affected leaf, stem, fruit or tuber tissue often eventually develops a white-gray, fuzzy look as the late blight organism begins to reproduce.

Causes:
Late blight is caused by the fungus-like water mold Phytophthora infestans. There are several variants or strains of this organism. Some variants/strains cause more severe problems on tomatoes; others are more of a problem on potatoes. P. infestans can be introduced when sporangia of the organism are blown into an area on prevailing winds. P. infestans can also be introduced on infected plants or potato tubers that are brought into an area for sale. P. infestans is unlikely to survive over the winter in Wisconsin soils.

Treatments/Solutions:
Plants showing symptoms of late blight cannot be saved and should be disposed of immediately to limit spread of P. infestans to other plants. For home gardeners, the preferred method of disposal is to pull affected plants (roots and all), and place them in plastic bags. The bags should be left in the sun for a few days to make sure that plants, as well as any P. infestans, are totally killed. Bagged plants should then be put out for trash pickup. Do not use composting for diseased plants or plant parts (e.g., tomato fruits or potato tubers). Once tomato fruits or potato tubers begin to show symptoms of late blight, they should NOT be eaten, nor should they be canned or otherwise preserved. Fungicides also can be used to reduce the impact of late blight. However, fungicide applications must be made prior to the onset of disease or they will be ineffective. Fungicides are most likely to be useful during periods of cool, wet weather. However, if weather conditions are excessively cool and wet, even properly-timed fungicide applications may not provide adequate late blight control. Certain, but not all, copper-containing products can be used for organic vegetable production.

Prevention:
In the spring, dispose of any volunteer tomato and potato plants (as well as weeds such as nightshade) as described above. All of these plants are potential sources of P. infestans. For the same reason, DO NOT use tubers from a previous year’s potato crop as seed potatoes. Instead purchase certified seed potatoes from a reputable supplier each year. Also, consider planting tomato varieties with late blight tolerance or resistance. The performance of these varieties may vary depending on the variant or strain of P. infestans that is present in a particular growing season, and depending on the weather conditions. 