Disease Name: Gummosis
Source: https://intermountainfruit.org/dbm/gummosis

Overview:
Cytospora canker, or "gummosis," is caused by Leucostoma persoonii or L. cincta. L. persoonii tends to be more common on peach, nectarine, plum, apricot, and low elevation cherry, especially in warmer climates. L. cincta is more common on apple and cherry in cooler growing areas (high elevation orchards), where infections occur through damaged fruit buds. 

Symptoms:
On stone fruit trees, copious yellow or amber gum on the bark indicates the presence of Leucostoma, while clear gum is not a disease, but rather injury (mechanical, low-temperature, or other) or borer activity. Underneath the gumming, the tissue between the wood and bark interface is dead, and will be light to dark brown in color. A jelly-like, gummy substance oozing from wounds or cankers on the tree can be seen. This gum can be clear, milky, or dark-colored. The gum can harden into a rock-like substance by the end of summer.

Causes:
Progression of the infection often occurs in spurts which are evident in alternating bands of darker and lighter colored tissue. Pimples appear beneath the bark as the spore-producing fruiting bodies (pycnidia) develop. The spores are released during and following extended wet periods. Gummosis occurs when a tree oozes sap from wounds or cankers, meaning it can be caused by a variety of factors, including environmental stress, poor horticultural practices, insect infestation, or mechanical injury.

Treatments/Solutions:
There currently are no effective chemical control options available for cytospora canker. Any affected limbs should be pruned out. Sometimes entire trees may need to be removed. Practice proper pruning techniques: don't leave stubs, don't make flush cuts, and don't leave flat cuts. Avoid pruning during wet weather periods. Use a sharp knife or scraper to remove the infected bark and a thin layer of healthy bark around it. This creates a clean wound that can heal properly. Apply a sealant or grafting wax to the affected areas to kill the fungal pathogens causing gummosis.

Prevention:
Minimize winter injury by promoting early hardiness of trees in the fall. Avoid applying excess nitrogen fertilizer, late applications, and late summer pruning. Minimize risk of sunscald by using 50% (in water) white latex paint on the bark of young trees. Maintain the tree's health to discourage insects and disease. Pruning and disposing of limbs during late winter are also essential.