Disease Name: Red Star Rust
Source: https://pddc.wisc.edu/2024/04/28/red-star-rust/

Overview:
Red star rust (also known as Japanese apple rust or lipstick rust) is a type of Gymnosporangium rust. The disease is native to Asia (in particular China, Korea and Japan) and was first detected in the US in Delaware and Pennsylvania in 2008. Red star rust was observed in Wisconsin in 2021 and to date has been found in Dane, Kenosha, Milwaukee, Outagamie, Ozaukee, Portage, Racine, and Walworth Counties. Red star rust is of concern because of its potential negative impact in commercial apple production. 

Symptoms:
On junipers, red star rust leads to branch swellings or small-diameter galls that sprout 1/8 to 3/8 inch long, flattened, orange, gelatinous protrusions in late spring to early summer. The galls/swellings and gelatinous masses can be confused with those produced by cedar-hawthorn and cedar-quince rust. On apples and crabapples, red star rust typically leads to bright red, maroon, or fuchsia-colored leaf spots that become readily visible by mid-summer. Beneath the colorful leaf spots, numerous spiny or tendril-like structures form.

Causes:
Red star rust is caused by the fungus Gymnosporangium yamadae. The fungus overwinters in infected branches and galls on junipers. Spores produced in the gelatinous masses on infected branches and galls spread on air currents to apple and crabapple trees leading to leaf infections. Similarly, spores produced in the tube-like spines on apple and crabapple leaves drift to junipers leading to new branch infections and additional gall formation. 

Treatments/Solutions:
On junipers, prune infected branches to remove the disease. Cut four to six inches below visible galls or areas on a branch that appear to be infected. Be sure to decontaminate pruning tools between cuts by treating them for at least 30 seconds in 70% alcohol (e.g., rubbing alcohol or certain spray disinfectants) or 10% bleach. Decontaminating tools will prevent movement of rust fungi from branch to branch or from plant to plant during pruning. If you use bleach, be sure to thoroughly rinse and oil your tools after pruning to prevent rusting. You can burn (where allowed) or bury pruned branches, or drop them off at your local yard waste disposal site.

Prevention:
The best way to avoid red star rust is to not grow junipers and apples or crabapples close to one another. In urban settings where yards are small however, keeping both hosts adequately separated may be impossible. Also, Chinese junipers have become increasingly common in many landscape settings because of their resistance to other Gymnosporangium rusts. If red star rust becomes a serious problem in your area, consider growing evergreens (e.g., pine, fir, spruce) and flowering trees and shrubs that are immune to the disease. Also, while fungicides treatments are available to control cedar-apple rust, cedar-hawthorn rust, and cedar-quince rust, how effective these treatments might be in controlling red star rust is also not known. 