Disease Name: Mosaic Virus
Source: https://www.planetnatural.com/pest-problem-solver/plant-disease/mosaic-virus/

Overview:
The mosaic virus is a parasite that destroys plants, gardens, and crops down to their molecular level. Once a plant contracts the mosaic virus, the infected plant can then spread the virus to other plants and even affect an entire harvest if left untreated. Mosaic viruses affect a wide variety of horticultural and vegetable crops.

Symptoms:
The typical symptoms of the mosaic virus includ yellow, white or green stripes/streaks/spots on foliage, wrinkled, curled or small leaves, pronounced yellowing only of veins, and stunted growth and reduced yields. Infected fruit appears mottled and develops raised "warty" areas. Stems often dry out rapidly, and dark green blisters may be seen.

Causes:
Mosaic viruses can be spread by weeds, infected seeds, an infected plant, or certain insects. Mosaic virus overwinters on perennial weeds and is spread by insects that feed on them. Aphids, leafhoppers, whiteflies, and cucumber beetles are common garden pests that can transmit this disease. Additionally, infected soil, seeds, starter pots, and containers can be infected and pass a virus particle to the plant. Cuttings or divisions from the infected tissue may also carry the virus allowing the virus to further spread.

Treatments/Solutions:
There are no cures for viral diseases, such as the mosaic virus, once a plant is infected. As a result, every effort should be made to prevent the disease from entering your garden. Although infected fruits are safe to eat, the rapid disease development in an infected plant can cause severe damage to a harvest. The virus will not create fruit to rot prematurely, but it will affect the anatomy of the plants such as the number of leaves. This, in turn, decreases fruit production and can dramatically reduce the yield of a harvest. Do NOT do composting. Spot treat with least-toxic, natural pest control products, such as Safer Soap, Bon-Neem, and diatomaceous earth, to reduce the number of disease-carrying insects. Harvest-Guard® row cover will help keep insect pests off vulnerable crops/transplants and should be installed until bloom. 

Prevention:
Fungicides will NOT treat this viral disease. Plant resistant varieties when available or purchase transplants from a reputable source. Do NOT save seeds from infected crops. Remove all perennial weeds, using least-toxic herbicides, within 100 yards of your garden plot. The virus can be spread through human activity, tools, and equipment. Frequently wash your hands and disinfect garden tools, stakes, ties, pots, greenhouse benches, etc. (one part bleach to 4 parts water) to reduce the risk of contamination. Avoid using tobacco around susceptible plants. Cigarettes and other tobacco products may be infected and can spread the virus.