Disease Name: Bacterial Spot
Source: https://www.aces.edu/blog/topics/crop-production/bacterial-spot-treatment-in-peaches/

Overview:
Bacterial spot is considered an economically important disease of peach and other stone fruit. Bacterial spot incidence and severity vary by year based on prevailing weather conditions. It can affect leaves, twigs, and fruit of peaches and other stone fruits. The disease can cause slight to nearly complete defoliation of infected trees. When significant defoliation occurs early in the season, fruit size can be reduced. A reduction in marketable fruit due to bacterial spot can cut into the profits of commercial peach operations.

Symptoms:
Symptoms of bacterial spot are first noticed in the leaves. Symptoms begin as small, water-soaked lesions that become larger and turn reddish brown or black over time. The growth of lesions is restricted by the leaf veins giving them an angular appearance. The lesions occur most frequently along the midrib and at the tip of the leaves. As the disease progresses, the lesions often fall away from the leaves giving them a ragged appearance. Leaves turn yellow and eventually fall from the tree. In trees with significant defoliation, sizing of fruit is impaired.

Causes:
Bacterial spot, caused by Xanthomonas arbicola pv. pruni. In the spring, this bacteria that causes bacterial spot will begin to ooze from cankers formed on twigs the previous summer. The bacteria are then spread by rain and insects to developing leaves and fruit of the current year’s growth. High moisture conditions favor spread of the pathogen due to frequent rains, heavy dews, or high humidity, and temperatures above 75 degrees F.

Treatments/Solutions:
Timely pruning practices used by commercial growers and homeowners facilitate controlling diseases like bacterial spot. Early season pruning can help control tree vigor, and summer pruning can improve air movement and increase sunlight penetration to improve fruit ripening. Both practices can encourage faster leaf drying after a rain as well as better coverage of copper and antibiotic sprays used to control bacterial spot. Use fertilizers on trees according to recommendations. Trees that are vigorous and receive proper care are less susceptible to bacterial spot.

Prevention:
Plant bacterial spot–resistant or less susceptible varieties. Using resistant varieties is the most sustainable way to control the disease. The most resistant varieties can still benefit from spray applications because in wet years even the most resistant variety can be infected with bacterial spot. Commercial growers and homeowners should use sound cultural control practices to help lessen the occurrence and severity of bacterial spot. Spray programs that manage bacterial spot are preventative and not curative. Therefore, sprays or other measures must be enacted in a timely fashion.