Disease Name: Leaf Scorch
Source: https://ipm.ucanr.edu/PMG/GARDEN/ENVIRON/leafscorch.html

Overview:
Leaf scorch is a physiological disorder that causes leaves to turn brown and die prematurely. The good news is that it is not caused by any type of fungus, bacteria, or virus. It's caused by environmental factors like high temperatures, dry winds, and low soil moisture. It can occur on any plant, but is most common on broadleaf trees like maple, elm, ash, and oak. 

Symptoms:
The biggest sign is when leaves turn brown at the tips or along the edges, and the browning spreads inward throughout the leaf. Leaves may also turn yellow between the veins and curl at the edges. They may droop or the plant may appear wilted, and there could be reddish-brown or gray banding along the inner edge of the scorched leaf tissue.

Causes:
Leaf scorch is caused by failure of the tree to supply enough water to the leaves at a critical time, usually in July and August. A great amount of water evaporates from the leaf surface because of sun and wind during hot, dry weather. If the water supply is deficient, the exposed leaves dry out and scorch. It can also be when the roots are damaged, defective, or covered by impervious materials. Salt from deicing or other sources can build up in the soil and cause leaf scorch as well.

Treatments/Solutions:
Leaf scorch is irreversible, but you can help your plant recover by watering it deeply and often enough. The best irrigation strategy is to provide deep, infrequent watering at the base of the plant, ideally in the early morning, using a soaking method like a drip line or hose to ensure the water reaches the roots thoroughly. You can also try to prevent leaf scorch by improving your plant's health and protecting it from environmental stressors. In order to maintain moisture, mulching (about a 3–4 inch layer) of organic mateirlas, like woodchips, bark, or leaf mold, is a good idea.

Prevention:
The best way to prevent this from happening in the future is to simply protect your plants from the different elements of nature, assuring it does not have to much exposure to them. In order to protect from the wind, you can plant a windbreak, build a wall or put up fencing to deflect the wind. As for the sun, simply move your plant to a less exposed location or plant companion plants to provide shade. Avoid using too many fertilizers and start watering early in the winter if your plant can handle it.