Disease Name: Bacterial Spot
Source: https://pddc.wisc.edu/2017/02/17/bacterial-spot-tomato/

Overview:
Bacterial spot of tomato is a potentially devastating disease that, in severe cases, can lead to unmarketable fruit and even plant death. Bacterial spot can occur wherever tomatoes are grown, but is found most frequently in warm, wet climates, as well as in greenhouses. The disease is often an issue in Wisconsin.

Symptoms:
Bacterial spot can affect all above ground parts of a tomato plant, including the leaves, stems, and fruit. Bacterial spot appears on leaves as small, sometimes water-soaked circular areas. Spots may initially be yellow-green but darken to brownish-red as they age. On green fruit, spots are typically small, raised and blister-like, and may have a yellowish halo. As fruit mature, the spots enlarge and turn brown, scabby and rough. Mature spots may be raised or sunken with raised edges.

Causes:
Bacterial spot of tomato is caused by Xanthomonas vesicatoria, Xanthomonas euvesicatoria, Xanthomonas gardneri, and Xanthomonas perforans. These bacterial pathogens can be introduced into a garden on contaminated seed and transplants, which may or may not show symptoms. Disease development is favored by warm, wet weather. Wind-driven rain can contribute to more severe disease as the pathogens are splashed and spread to healthy leaves and fruit.

Treatments/Solutions:
A plant with bacterial spot cannot be cured. Remove symptomatic plants from your garden or greenhouse to prevent the spread of bacteria to healthy plants. Burn (where allowed by local ordinance), bury or hot compost the affected plants, and DO NOT eat symptomatic fruit. Although bacterial spot pathogens are not human pathogens, the fruit blemishes that they cause can provide entry points for human pathogens that could cause illness. Burn (where allowed by local ordinance), bury or hot compost tomato debris at the end of the season. Wait at least one year before planting tomatoes in a given location again, and remove and burn, bury or hot compost any volunteer tomatoes that come up in your garden.

Prevention:
Plant pathogen-free seed or transplants to prevent the introduction of bacterial spot pathogens on contaminated seed or seedlings. If a clean seed source is not available or you suspect that your seed is contaminated, consider treating the seed in hot water prior to planting to eliminate the pathogens. To keep leaves dry and to prevent the spread of the pathogens, avoid overhead watering of established plants. Instead use a drip-tape or soaker-hose. Also, to prevent spread, DO NOT handle plants when they are wet, and routinely sterilize tools with either 10% bleach solution or 70% alcohol (e.g., rubbing alcohol). Where bacterial spot has been a recurring problem, consider using preventative applications of copper-based products registered for use on tomato, especially during warm, wet periods.