Disease Name: Leaf Mold
Source: https://www.vegetables.cornell.edu/pest-management/disease-factsheets/tomato-leaf-mold/

Overview:
Tomato leaf mold is a foliar disease that is especially problematic in greenhouse and high tunnels. It is less common in the field compared to greenhouses and high tunnels. Despite the slower progression of this disease compared to a pathogen such as Phytophthora infestans, management is still crucial because tomatoes are a high value crop and consistent yields are an important source of income for growers.

Symptoms:
Disease symptoms first appear after seven days as light green spots on leaves. Soon after, olive-green asexual conidia emerge, and eventually the spots become necrotic. Disease symptoms appear first on the lower leaves of tomato plants. Fruit production may not be severely hampered during the earlier stages of disease, but over time, disease severity increases and defoliation occurs. Proper identification of disease is important.

Causes:
Tomato leaf mold is caused by a fungal pathogen called Passalora fulva (syn. Cladosporium fulvum). It is an ascomycete fungus that lives on living tomato leaves. The fungus produces conidia that infect the lower surfaces of leaves. After landing on leaves, the fungus lands and enters plant stomata used in gas exchange. The stomata become clogged and tomato plants cannot respire well, resulting in wilting, defoliation, and infection.

Treatments/Solutions:
Nutrients and disease pressures can build up in high tunnels, so practice crop rotation and move tunnels regularly. Control methods for conventional growers include the Quadris Top product, a fungicide containing azoxystrobin and difenoconazole, or products such as Bravo Weather Stik, containing chlorothalonil. Improve air circulation by staking, stringing, or pruning your plant or by using vents/fans. Avoid overhead watering: instead, use drip irrigation or water in the morning so leaves can dry quickly. Additionally, remove and destroy any affected leaves and branches.

Prevention:
Make sure seeds are clean and purchased from a reputable source. Using plant resistant varieties is one way to avoid problems with leaf mold. There are 3 main types of them: determinant varieties, indeterminant varieties, and heirloom varieties. Also, if you observe symptoms in the greenhouse, remove the diseased plants and surrounding plants to prevent pathogen spread. Dispose of infected plant material and sterilize all equipment that was used in that greenhouse. 