Disease Name: Leaf Blight
Source: https://www.rhs.org.uk/disease/tomato-Blight

Overview:
Tomato leaf blight (also known as late blight) is a disease causing collapse and decay in the fruit of tomatoes. It can be a very serious disease on outdoor tomatoes. Tomatoes grown in greenhouses are less likely to be affected but can still suffer badly at times. Blight is specific to tomatoes, potatoes (on which it is known as potato blight) and some ornamental relatives of these two crops.

Symptoms:
The initial symptom of blight is a rapidly spreading, watery rot of leaves, which soon collapse, shrivel, and turn brown. Brown lesions may also develop on the leaf stalks (petioles) and stems, again with white growth sometimes visible under wet or very humid conditions. Watersoaked patches, turning brown, can appear on green fruit, whilst more mature fruits will decay rapidly.

Causes:
Tomato leaf blight (also known as late blight) is a disease caused by a fungus-like (Oomycete) organism that spreads rapidly through the foliage and fruit of tomatoes in warm, wet weather, causing collapse and decay. In order for infection to occur prolonged surface wetness (several hours) is required; this is why the disease is so serious in wet summers. Under humid conditions, stalks bearing sporangia grow from freshly killed tissues and the disease can spread rapidly through the crop.

Treatments/Solutions:
Do not compost. Instead, infected material should be deeply buried (below the depth of cultivation), consigned to the local council green waste collection or burned. Many tomato cultivars are very susceptible, but cultivars are now available for most types of tomato that claim resistance to the disease. Even these cultivars are not usually completely immune, and will probably succumb to the disease to at least some extent if prolonged favourable weather occurs. Utilize crop rotation to reduce the risk of potential infection from resting spores in outdoor soil-grown tomato crops, ideally of at least four years (also avoid growing potatoes in the soil during this period).

Prevention:
Use the fruit from affected crops as soon as possible. Once a plant has developed high levels of the disease on the leaves and stems it is likely that many of the fruit will also have been infected, even if they don’t yet show symptoms. Attempting to harvest and ripen green fruit from affected plants indoors may therefore result in a large percentage of the fruit subsequently rotting, so using the unripe fruit immediately may be a better option. Re-using soil or composting will also increase the risk from a range of other diseases that can attack the root system or the vascular system of the plants. The soil or compost could be distributed over an area of the garden not used for growing tomatoes or potatoes.