Disease Name: Target Spot
Source: https://apps.lucidcentral.org/pppw_v10/text/web_full/entities/tomato_target_spot_163.htm

Overview:
The fungus causes plants to lose their leaves; it is a major disease. If infection occurs before the fruit has developed, yields are low. This is a common disease on tomato in Pacific island countries. The disease occurs in the screen house and in the field.

Symptoms:
The disease starts on the older leaves and spreads upwards. The first signs are irregular-shaped spots (less than 1 mm) with a yellow margin. Some of the spots enlarge up to 10 mm and show characteristics rings, hence the name of  'target spot.' Spread to all leaflets and to other leaves is rapid, causing the leaves to turn yellow, collapse and die. Spots also occur on the stems. Small light brown spots with dark margins may also occur on the fruit.

Causes:
The source of the fungus is from other crops, the remains of the previous crop and, perhaps, other host species. The fungus is very common on papaya leaves causing angular, light brown or grey spots, 2 mm diameter, sometimes surrounded by a yellow margin; the centres of the spots often fall out producing a 'shot-hole' effect. It is also a disease of cucumber.

Treatments/Solutions:
Trials have been done in Solomon Islands with lines of tomatoes from AVRDC (now known as The World Vegetable Center). One variety has been released and this has some tolerance to the disease, BUT is not resistant. Warm wet conditions favour the disease such that fungicides are needed to give adequate control. The products to use are chlorothalonil, copper oxychloride or mancozeb. Treatment should start when the first spots are seen and continue at 10-14-day intervals until 3-4 weeks before last harvest. It is important to spray both sides of the leaves. Practice crop rotation, leaving 3 years before replanting tomato on the same land. 

Prevention:
Before planting, do not plant new crops next to older ones that have the disease. Plant as far as possible from papaya, especially if leaves have small angular spots. Check all seedlings in the nursery, and throw away any with leaf spots. During growth, remove a few branches from the lower part of the plants to allow better airflow at the base. Remove and burn the lower leaves as soon as the disease is seen, especially after the lower fruit trusses have been picked. Keep plots free from weeds, as some may be hosts of the fungus. Do not use overhead irrigation; otherwise, it will create conditions for spore production and infection. After harvest, collect and burn as much of the crop as possible when the harvest is complete.