Disease Name: Verticillium Wilt
Source: https://pddc.wisc.edu/2015/08/19/verticillium-wilt-of-vegetables/

Overview:
Verticillium wilt is a typically fatal disease that affects a wide range of vegetable crops in Wisconsin. Vegetables commonly and severely affected by Verticillium wilt include tomato, potato, pepper, eggplant, cucumber, muskmelon, pumpkin and watermelon. Other vegetables either show less severe symptoms or are immune to the disease.

Symptoms:
Initial symptoms of Verticillium wilt include sudden yellowing of foliage, typically first appearing on one side of a plant. These leaves then wilt and die. Oftentimes, symptoms mimic the natural aging process of leaves. Eventually however, the entire plant becomes affected and dies. By peeling away the outer layers of affected branches or vines, you may observe brown streaking in the vascular (water-conducting) tissue. Vascular browning is common in tomato and potato plants.

Causes:
Verticillium wilt is caused primarily by two fungi, Verticillium dahliae and Verticillium albo-atrum. These fungi are commonly found in Wisconsin soils. V. dahliae and V. albo-atrum have wide host ranges including many common weeds, such as ragweed and velvetleaf. Susceptible plants and their debris can serve as an overwintering site for these fungi. In potato, root lesion nematodes can contribute to the development of Verticillium wilt.

Treatments/Solutions:
Vegetables infected with Verticillium cannot be cured and will eventually die. However, you can extend the life of infected plants by watering them properly and using fertilizers. Fertilization should be based on a soil nutrient test and should be tailored to the specific vegetables being grown. Most vegetables require approximately one inch of water per week. If natural rains are not sufficient, then supplemental water should be applied using a soaker or drip hose.

Prevention:
Do not repeatedly grow crops that are highly susceptible to Verticillium wilt in the same area of your garden each year. Try to rotate highly susceptible crops with other less susceptible crops. Keep broadleaf weeds under control, as these plants are often susceptible to Verticillium wilt and can serve as a reservoir for the fungus. Finally, decontaminate any gardening items (e.g., shovels, hoes, plant stakes, pots, working surfaces, etc.) that may have come into contact with Verticillium to prevent spread of the fungus. Rinse these items with water to remove clinging soil, then treat them for at least 30 seconds with a 10% bleach solution or (preferable for metal tools due its less corrosive properties) 70% alcohol (e.g., rubbing alcohol, certain spray disinfectants). If you use bleach, be sure to thoroughly rinse and oil metal tools after gardening to prevent rusting.